# Quantum Computing
This repository consists of the work and study I did during my internship at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Fall 2020 under the guidance of Dr. Anandi Giridharan.

## Introduction

Gordon Earl Moore in 1965 stated a law which is now very well known as the Moore’s Law and states that the “number of transistors in a dense Integrated Circuit (IC) doubles every two years.” The size of the transistors is essentially defined as the distance from source-to-drain. In 2020, the size has reached to as low as 5nm. With the size decreasing every year, we have to think about the Quantum Mechanics which tells us that even if there is a potential barrier between source and the drain, it is possible that electron can flow between them because of “Quantum Tunneling”. Therefore, it becomes a challenge to keep the potential barrier high enough while the barrier between the source and the drain is extremely thin. This is the engineering problem that needs to solved. Hence, we can see that now, the scientists have been working on building a computational machine that uses the laws of Quantum Mechanics to give us exponentially greater computing power. An important point to note here is that quantum computers do not make individual operations faster compared to the most advanced classical computer currently in existence. The main advantage that quantum computers offer is in terms of making the total number of operations significantly lesser compared to a classical computer. Thus, quantum computers are not to be thought of as replacement for classical computers but for certain tasks, they provide an exponential edge in terms of computing power.

## Quantum Information

Ever since its invention in the 1920s, quantum physics has given rise to countless discussions about its meaning and about how to interpret the theory correctly. These discussions focus on issues like the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox, quantum non-locality and the role of measurement in quantum physics. In recent years, however, research into the very foundations of quantum mechanics has also led to a new field – quantum information technology. The use of quantum physics could revolutionize the way we communicate and process information. Two-state systems are also used to encode information in quantum systems and it is traditional to call the two quantum states |0〉 and |1〉. The really novel feature of quantum information technology is that a quantum system can be in a superposition of different states. In a sense, the quantum bit can be in both the |0〉 state and the |1〉 state at the same time. This new feature has no parallel in classical information theory and in 1995 Ben Schumacher of Kenyon College in the US coined the word “qubit” to describe a quantum bit.
